Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A set of instructions for a computer to execute and perform specific tasks

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The JDK or Java Development Kit is composed of the following
   1. Java Compiler: The javac tool (accessed using javac command) reads class and interface definitions, written
   in the Java programming language, and compiles them into bytecode class files. It can also process annotations
   in Java source files and classes.

   2. Java Interpreter: Java interpreter is used to interpret the .class Java files that have been compiled by Java
   compiler (javac). Java interpreter is accessed using java command. The java command starts a Java application.

   3. Java Disassembler: The javap command is the disassembly tool of JDK that disassembles one or more class files.
   Its output depends on the options used. If no options are used, javap prints out the package, protected, and public
   fields and methods of the classes passed to it. The javap prints its output to stdout.

   4. Java Header File Generator: Java Header File Generator (javah command-line tool) generates C header and source
   files that are needed to implement native methods. The generated header and source files are used by C programs to
   reference an object's instance variables from native source code.

   5. Java Documentation: Java Documentation helps to maintain code. The javadoc tool comes as part of Java Development
   Kit that parses the declarations and documentation comments in a set of Java source files and produces a corresponding
   set of HTML pages describing the public and protected classes, nested classes (but not anonymous inner classes),
   interfaces, constructors, methods, and fields.

   6. Java Debugger: The Java Debugger, jdb, is a simple command-line debugger for Java classes. It is a demonstration
   of the Java Platform Debugger Architecture that provides inspection and debugging of a local or remote Java Virtual
   Machine.

   7. Java Applet Viewer: This is used to view the Java applets. The applet viewer command connects to the documents or
   resources designated by urls and displays each applet referenced by the documents in its own window.

What is IDE?
A. IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is where all the basic tools needed for writing and testing software are
   consolidated. These tools range from text editors, code libraries, compilers and test platforms.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, Intellij Idea, NetBeans, AndroidStudio, Enide Studio 2014, BlueJ, jEdit, jGRASP, JSource, JDeveloper,
   DrJava etc

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Use any text editor to create a high level Java text file. This file is saved as a .java file on the disk.
   Then compile this text file using the Java compiler, which result in a .class file being created on the disk.
   The .class file contains the bytecodes. The file is then loaded into memory by the class loader. The bytecode
   verifier confirms that the bytecodes are valid and not hostile. Finally, the JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and
   translates them into machine code.

what is class?
A. A blueprint used to create and define objects and methods.

What is object?
A. An instance of a java class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. The entry point of an application is the main method.

Why main is static?
A. It is so that the compiler can call main method without the need to create and object for main method.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. The object class is the superclass of all classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. The Path variable is used to set the path for all java tools such as java and javac. Classpath is
   used to set the path for java classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. An abstract class permits you to make functionality that subclasses can implement or override.
   An interface only permits you to state functionality but not to implement it.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No we can not create object in Interface and Abstract class. Interface contains methods to be implemented, in abstract
   class we can implement some of them and can create more new methods as required keeping at least one abstract method.
   later abstract class can be extended and create and concrete class where there will be no abstract methods.

what is Access Specifier?
A. The access specifier is used the determine the visibility of methods and variables.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP is Object Oriented Programming.
   Features of OOP are:
   1. Encapsulation: Bundles data with the method that operates it
   2. Inheritance: The structure and methods of one class can be passed down to another class using extends command
   3. Polymorphism: Objects of different types can be accessed through the same interface.
   4. Abstraction: Implementation hiding.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. A java package is a group of similar types of classes, interfaces and sub-packages. The java.lang package is always
   imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. An application program interface (API) is a set of routines, protocols, and tools for building software applications.
   Basically, an API specifies how software components should interact. Additionally, APIs are used when programming
   graphical user interface (GUI) components. A good API makes it easier to develop a program by providing all the
   building blocks. A programmer then puts the blocks together.
   I have used java.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. Java does not support multiple inheritance. To reduce the complexity and simplify the language, multiple inheritance
   is not supported in java.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. If a class has multiple methods having the same name but different parameters, it is known as Method Overloading.
   It happens in compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. Exception is an abnormal condition. In Java, an exception is an event that disrupts the normal flow of the program.
   It is an object which is thrown at runtime.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. The static keyword denotes that a member variable, or method can be accessed without requiring
   an instantiation of the class to which it belongs when static key word is used with a method that method can
   be called without creating a object.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. A final class cannot be subclassed. A final variable can only be initialized once. A final method cannot be overridden
   by subclasses.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final:
   Final variables are nothing but constants. We cannot change the value of a final variable once it is initialized. A
   final method cannot be overridden. Which means even though a sub class can call the final method of parent class
   without any issues but it cannot override it.

   Finally:
   Finally key word used to execute finally block when the try and catch block exits which ensures that the finally
   block is executed even if an unexpected exception occurs.

   Finalize:
   Called by the garbage collector on an object when garbage collection determines that there are no more references to
   the object.

What is a constructor ?
A. A special method that is used to initialize objects.
   The constructor is called when an object of a class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes it is possible to have multiple constructors of different parameters, but not of the same parameters.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. During the object creation the default constructor is called if we do not have one declared.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. This key word represents instance of the class. This can be used to access class methods and variables.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. Super key word used for accessing the members of the super class by the extended class.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. JAVA Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A. Yes JVM is an independent platform.

What version of java are you using?
A. I am using Java 8.

What is JAR stand for ?
A. JAR stands for Java Archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment
   which is used to develop Java applications. It physically exists. It contains JRE + development tools.

   JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine. It is called a virtual machine because it doesn't physically exist.
   It is a specification that provides a runtime environment in which Java bytecode can be executed. It can also run those
   programs which are written in other languages and compiled to Java bytecode.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine. It is called a virtual machine because it doesn't physically exist.
   It is a specification that provides a runtime environment in which Java bytecode can be executed. It can also run those
   programs which are written in other languages and compiled to Java bytecode.

   Java Runtime Environment (JRE) is also written as Java RTE. The Java Runtime Environment is a set
   of software tools which are used for developing Java applications. It is used to provide the runtime environment.
   It is the implementation of JVM. It physically exists.
   It contains a set of libraries + other files that JVM uses at runtime.

What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile time is when the programming code is converted into machine code. Runtime is when a program is running
   and usually occurs after runtime.

What is heap?
A. The heap is the run-time data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated. Heap is the place
   where all objects stays during run time. It is part of RAM.

How java manage it's memory?
A. Java manages its memory by using the JVM. The JVM loads the code verifies the code, executes the code manages memory
   this includes allocating memory from the Operating System.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is immutable, if you try to alter their values, another object gets created.
   StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable so they can change their values. StringBuffer methods are synchronized while
   StringBuilder methods are non-synchronized, it means that for thread-safe operations
   you must choose StringBuffer class instead of StringBuilder.

What is Singleton class?
A. It is a class that can only contain one object at a time. It is possible to make a constructor private so that
   users will not be able to an object outside of the class.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization: It is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or
   database or can be sent through streams.

   Deserialization: The reverse process of creating object from sequence
   of bytes is called deserialization.

when to use transient variable in java?
A. Transient variable is used in serialization.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. In do...while loop, whatever the condition for loop is the system will execute the do statement first and then will
   execute the while condition. in while loop java will execute the only while condition accordingly.

What is Enum?
A. Enum is a data type that contains fixed set of constants.

What is Iterator?
A. An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer will take more memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. String is Immutable so that it cannot be modified.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Calling a constructor in the same class from another constructor. The this keyword can be used to call another
   constructor in the same class.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. The serial garbage collector uses a single thread to perform all garbage collection work, which is more efficient
   because of no communication overhead between threads. Parallel garbage collector has multiple threads used
   to speed up garbage collection.

What is JIT stands for?
A. The Just-In-Time (JIT) is a component of the Java™ Runtime Environment that improves the performance of Java
   applications at run time. The JIT compiler helps improve the performance of Java programs by compiling bytecodes into
   native machine code at run time. The JIT compiler is enabled by default, and is activated when a Java method is called.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. The Java heap space is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM.
   Objects in the heap can be shared between threads. Garbage collection is an automatic process to manage the
   runtime memory used by programs. Garbage collection of JAVA application is done by Garbage collector.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. No, it is not guaranteed process.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. The major difference between Stack memory and heap memory is that the stack is used to store the order of method
   execution and local variables while the heap memory stores the objects and it uses dynamic memory allocation and
   deallocation.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Java Reflection is a process of examining or modifying the run time behavior of a class at run time.
   It is useful because it allows an executing java program to examine itself and manage the internal properties
   of the program.

what is multithreading in java?
A. Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is Framework?
A. A framework, or software framework, is a platform for developing software applications. It provides a foundation on
   which software developers can build programs for a specific platform.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. testNG and jUnit.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests.
   TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an upgraded option for running tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A. mongo-java-driver-3.4.0.jar
   mysql-connector-java-8.0.25.jar
   testing-6.8.5.jar

what is dependency injection in java?
A. Dependency Injection is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside.
   It can be implemented in any programming language.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static binding is when the type of object is determined at compile time by the compiler. Dynamic binding is when
   the type is determined at run time. Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses
   Objects to resolve binding.








